# AirportWaitTimeSim
Using the SimPy module in Python, I simulated a simplified version of the time spent waiting at an airport security line, and the time it would take for that wait to be cut down to at most 15 minutes by modifying the amount of scanners/ID checkers. The process for airline security arrivals follows a Poisson distribution with lambda being equal to 50 to simulate 50 passengers per minute. Given a mean interval rate of 0.20 (i.e 1/lambda) for the time it would take to get through the ID/boarding pass check in, and the TSA agents following an exponential distribution at 0.75 minutes/person, I deduced that the amount of scanners and ID checkers had to be at least 35 each for the wait time to be less than 15 minutes. The following figures and their captions go into more detail about the methodology and the code used to find this value. However with that being said, the main method for determining the wait time was done by incrementing the number of scanners and the number of checkers by 5, starting at 5. Additionally, one problem I have encountered with this code was that some of the values for calculating the wait time (total time in process - time spent checking - time spent scanning) ended up being negative. Although these values where extremely close to 0 (e.g 1.324 * 10-16), I could not find a proper reason as to why the values were negative. That should not be possible as the passenger function takes the start time before beginning any scanning/checking, and taking the end time after all of the processes have been completed. With these values being so close to 0, perhaps this could be a rounding issue as the values are on the -16th order, and python rounding issues can be prevalent due to the IEEE method of storing floats. Regardless, the final numbers do fall in line with what would typically be expected of an airport to reduce waiting times, and the decrease in number of scanners/checkers does proportionally increase the wait times.
